Content: Unfettered campaign Act 1 (#6416)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/hai/unfettered duel jobs.txt

	npc save disable
		government "Hai (Unfettered Challenger)"
		personality disables plunders staying heroic target
		fleet "Shield Beetle Challenger"
		dialog phrase "unfettered challenger defeated"
	on complete
		payment 500000
		"unfettered challenger defeated" += 2

mission "Unfettered Challenge [2]"
	job
	repeat
	substitutions
		<payment> "1 million credits"
	name `Defeat an old Unfettered captain`
	description `An experienced Unfettered captain has challenged you into a duel with his escort. Disable his ships for <payment>.`
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	to offer
		has "Unfettered: Prove Your Strength: done"
		"ships: Light Warship" * 4 + "ships: Medium Warship" * 6 + "ships: Heavy Warship" * 12 <= 40
		random < 20
	npc save disable
		government "Hai (Unfettered Challenger)"
		personality disables plunders staying heroic target
		fleet "Shield Beetle Challenger"
		fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		dialog phrase "unfettered challenger defeated"
	on complete
		payment 1000000
		"unfettered challenger defeated" += 3

# when you board the generic challengers
mission "Unfettered Space Challenge Small"
	minor
	boarding
	repeat
	name "Collect your payment on <destination>"

> 	description "An Unfettered captain has offered you a payment of <payment> for beating them in battle, land on <destination> to collect it."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	description `An Unfettered captain has offered you a payment of <payment> for beating them in battle, land on <destination> to collect it.`
```

		"Afterburner (Comet Class)"
		"Thruster (Lunar Class)"
		
		"Double Plasma Core"
		"Large Biochemical Cell"
		
		"Korath Repeater Rifle" 20
		"Pulse Rifle" 60
		"Dual Pulse Pistols" 10
		"True Unfettered License"
	gun 0 -7 "Korath Detainer"
	gun -22 -102 "Sunbeam"
	gun 22 -102 "Sunbeam"
	gun -34 -68 "Sunbeam"
	gun 34 -68 "Sunbeam"
	gun -49 -38
	gun 49 -38
	gun -61 -14 "Flamethrower"
	gun 61 -14 "Flamethrower"
	turret -51 21.5 "Korath Grab-Strike"
	turret 51 21.5 "Bullfrog Anti-Missile"
	turret -56.5 75 "Korath Banisher"
	turret 56.5 75 "Bullfrog Anti-Missile"
	turret 0 85.5 "Bullfrog Anti-Missile"

# They ask you to sell the weapons you used to defeat them, the chance increases the more duels you win.
mission "Unfettered Bring Fire"
	job
	repeat
	name "Bring 2 Flamethrowers"
	description "The captain you just duelled has seen what fire can do, and they want to learn the secrets behind it. Bring 2 Flamethrowers to them for <payment>."
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	to offer
		has "outfit (installed): Flamethrower"
		random < "unfettered challenger defeated" * 5
	on offer
		clear "unfettered challenger defeated"
	on complete
		outfit "Flamethrower" -2
		payment 1000000

> 		dialog `The Unfettered captain is delighted that you were able to give him these 2 Flamethrowers, and give you <payment>. "I shall put them to good use! These seem like they would pair perfectly with our ion weapons." He says, with a grin on his face.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		dialog `The Unfettered captain is delighted that you were able to give him these 2 Flamethrowers, and gives you <payment>. "I shall put them to good use! These seem like they would pair perfectly with our ion weapons." He says, with a grin on his face.`
```

# Copyright (c) 2022 by Hurleveur
#
# Endless Sky is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
# terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
# Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# Endless Sky is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
# WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
# PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

> event "unfettered: challengers arrive"

Author: good point! I'll think about it, should definitely be on the final version of the duel branch
for right now there's other issues with those jobs as well and I need to look into the spawning mechanic a bit

		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Shield Beetle Challenger"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Shield Beetle Challenger"
	system "Ehma Ti"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Shield Beetle Challenger"
		remove fleet "Shield Beetle Challenger"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Shield Beetle Challenger"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Shield Beetle Challenger"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Shield Beetle Challenger"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
	system "Hi Yahr"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"
		remove fleet "Sea Scorpion Challenger"

mission "Unfettered: Challengers Arrive"
	landing
	invisible
	source "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "unfettered: duel ready"
	on offer
		conversation
			branch fixing
				not "Unfettered: Challengers Arrive: deferred"
			`Do you want to go see the Captain in the spaceport now?`
			choice
				`	(Yes.)`
					goto explain
				`	(Maybe another time.)`
					defer
			label fixing

> 			`The Captain meets you in the spaceport now that his crew is done patching up his ship. "She be space worthy again, alright. I got lots to explain to you, if ye're ready to listen, mate!"`

Author: yes, at the end of the next mission

			choice
				`	"Go ahead."`
				`	"Maybe another time."`
					defer
			label explain

> 			`	"Now that ye savvy how a duel rolls, many Unfettered will want to challenge ye, interested in the exotic tactics and weaponry you may bring - they may even buy some of it if they be liking what they see! If ye agree, they won't think twice about engaging you once you get too close and will be marked on yer map, because they be wanting ta make sure ye see them! But best be careful not to run around with too big an armada while taking challenges, or yer hearties may wind up feeding the fishes for carrying yer flag. We wouldn't want that now, would we?`

Author: can we just have it be always ye? he isnt that good at english anyhow

mission "Unfettered: Bring Carnage"
	job
	repeat
	name "Sell <weapons>"
	description "The captain you just duelled has seen what <weapons> can do to hull, and they want to learn the secrets behind it. Bring two to them for <payment>."
	substitutions
		<weapons> "two Ka'Het Ravager Beams"
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	to offer
		random < "unfettered challenger defeated" * 10
	on accept
		clear "unfettered challenger defeated"
		outfit "Ka'het Ravager Beam" -2
		payment 2000000
		dialog phrase "unfettered weapon delivery"

mission "Unfettered: Bring Repeater"
	job
	repeat
	name "Sell <weapons>"
	description "The captain you just duelled is impressed by the raw amount of heat brought by your weapons. Bring <weapons> to them for <payment>."
	substitutions
		<weapons> "two Plasma repeaters"
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	to offer
		has "outfit (installed): Plasma Repeater"
		random < "unfettered challenger defeated" * 20
	on accept
		clear "unfettered challenger defeated"
		outfit "Plasma Repeater" -2
		payment 1250000
		dialog phrase "unfettered weapon delivery"

mission "Unfettered: Bring Particles"
	job
	repeat
	name "Sell <weapons>"

> 	description "The captain you just duelled is interested by the range and damage of the Particle Cannon. Bring two to them for <payment>."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	description "The captain you just duelled has taken interest in the range and damage of the Particle Cannon. Bring two to them for <payment>."
```

mission "Unfettered: Remove The Challengers"
	job
	repeat
	name "No more spontaneous challengers"
	description "Mark yourself as no longer wanting to do spontaneous challenges in any Unfettered systems."
	source "Darkcloak"
	to offer
		has "unfettered: duel ready"
		has "unfettered: challengers"
	to fail
		has "Unfettered: Remove The Challengers: active"
	on accept
		fail "Unfettered Spontaneous Challenge"
		clear "unfettered: challengers"
		dialog "No more spontaneous challengers will come by themselves in space, no matter how many there were. You can still change your mind by accepting the other job, or any specific duelling job."

phrase "beaten in duel"
	word
		`The duellist seems `
	word
		`very excited`
		`all too happy`
		`a bit disappointed`
	word
		` as they hail you, now that you are disabled, "`
	word
		`Ha!`
		`Haha!`
		`Well...`
		`It is over.`
	word
		` `
	word
		`It seems that you are not invincible after all`
		`I have beaten you`
		`You have been bested`
		`You have found your match`
		`That was a close one`
		`You almost got me there`
		`Finally beaten`
		`Tales will be told of this fight`
		`You have fought well`

> 		`Can't you do better than that?`

Reviewer: Looks like an accident, but it still works I guess

> 		`Can't you do better than that?`

Reviewer 2: This can be resolved then.

		`Here are your well deserved <payment>, captain. Next time I will not underestimate you`
		`You must have had an edge! I'm in no condition to argue about giving you your payment of <payment>, however don't expect to see us again anytime soon`
		`Here is your <payment>, captain, well earned`
		`Whatever the case, you have earned my weapon, and my respect, captain. I have transferred <payment> for you`
		`We will analyze the fight to make sure you have not cheated. If that is the case, you will receive the <payment> shortly. If this was a fair fight, you may have gained my respect`
	word
		`."`
	word
		"	(Winning the duel has slightly increased your reputation with the Unfettered. You are in no way allowed to do any more than plundering the ship.)"

phrase "unfettered challenger captured"
	word
		`As soon as you captured the enemy challenger, you are hailed by the local unfettered authorities with a purple code priority transmission: "Never do that again. This is your first and final warning."`

mission "Duel Rewards"
	landing
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	to offer
		has "unfettered challenger defeated"
	on offer
		conversation

> 			`You open the hatch of your ship, only to discover a hai standing right in front of you, pointing pistols you have never seen before! This must be the captain you have just defeated.`

Author: are you sure about all the capitalization of Hai?
caus I'd just say a human, for instance

> 			`You open the hatch of your ship, only to discover a hai standing right in front of you, pointing pistols you have never seen before! This must be the captain you have just defeated.`

Reviewer 2: Yes, but human is a word established today. I would think that because it’s from another species, it should be capitalized.

> 			`You open the hatch of your ship, only to discover a hai standing right in front of you, pointing pistols you have never seen before! This must be the captain you have just defeated.`

Reviewer 2: I'm pretty sure it uses capitals.

> 			`You open the hatch of your ship, only to discover a hai standing right in front of you, pointing pistols you have never seen before! This must be the captain you have just defeated.`

Reviewer: Yes, Hai is capitalized in user-facing text.

			choice
				`	(Wait for them to reveal their intentions.)`
					goto explain
				`	(Draw my weapon.)`
			`	As you start to reach for your weapon the Unfettered gets closer to you, moving fast to put one of their pistols on your neck. "I like you," she says. "Ready to face danger, welcoming death! A shame you probably will not live that long with this attitude," she says before moving back slightly.`
			label explain
			`	She salutes you, pistol still in her hand, before presenting both weapons to you, as if making an offering. Seeing your apparent surprise, she starts speaking about the pistols, "Fascinating design, is it not? They come from the time of the Korath raids. Even then, some of us decided it was better to take the initiative and attack them before they can attack us! They developed this much more mobile version of the pulse rifle, and made it more deadly.`

> 			`	You earned the right to have mine by defeating me in a duel. Of course we won't bother you every time you win one, but you'll be getting the pistols all the same, in sets of 3 per day at most." She almost forcibly puts the pistols in your hand, and goes back to her ship, probably to supervise the repairs.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	"You earned the right to have mine by defeating me in a duel. Of course we won't bother you every time you win one, but you'll be getting the pistols all the same, in sets of 3 per day at most." She almost forcibly puts the pistols in your hand, and goes back to her ship, probably to supervise the repairs.`
```

			action
				outfit "Dual Pulse Pistols"

mission "Duel Weapons"
	landing
	invisible
	repeat
	minor
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	to offer
		has "Duel Rewards: offered"
		"unfettered challenger defeated" >= ( "unfettered: pistols received" + 3 )
	on offer
		outfit "Dual Pulse Pistols" 3
		"unfettered: pistols received" += 3

mission "Unfettered Challenge [0]"
	job
	repeat

> 	name `Defeat a young Unfettered captain`

Author: it's fine

		<weapons> "two Plasma repeaters"
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	to offer
		has "outfit (installed): Plasma Repeater"
		random < "unfettered challenger defeated" * 20
	on accept
		clear "unfettered challenger defeated"
		outfit "Plasma Repeater" -2
		payment 1250000
		dialog phrase "unfettered weapon delivery"

mission "Unfettered: Bring Particles"
	job
	repeat
	name "Sell <weapons>"
	description "The captain you just duelled has taken interest in the range and damage of the Particle Cannon. Bring two to them for <payment>."
	substitutions
		<weapons> "two Particle Cannons"
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	to offer
		has "outfit (installed): Particle Cannon"
		random < "unfettered challenger defeated" * 5
	on offer
		clear "unfettered challenger defeated"
	on complete
		outfit "Particle Cannon" -2
		payment 1000000
		dialog phrase "unfettered weapon delivery"

phrase "unfettered challenger"
	word
		"The rules of the duel are clear: do not"
		"Do not"
		"Do not"
		"You have asked for a time out, now do not"
	word
		" "
		" attempt to "
		" try to "
		" presume to "
		" think you can "
	word
		"attack me"
		"shoot me"
	word
		" "
	word
		"until a day has passed"

> 		"until you changed system or landed"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"until have you changed systems or landed"
```

	word
		" "
	word
		"will"
		"shall be forced to"
		"will not hesitate to"
	word
		"take action"
		"shoot"
		"defend me"
		"do what it takes to maintain order"
	word
		"!"

phrase "hostile unfettered challenger"
	word
		"Stop "
		"Quit "
	word
		"shaming yourself"
		"running away"
		"overthinking"
		"recharging your shields"
		"hiding in fear"
	word
		" and come "
		" and come try and "
	word
		"defeat "
		"fight "
	word
		"me."
	word
		" Now is the time to reveal ourselves in the glory of battle"
		" Show me what you got"
		" That's more like it"
		" Time for a fair fight"
	word
		"!"

phrase "hostile unfettered challenger"
	word
		"Now is not the time for talk"
		"Yes! Fight me"
		"Our battle will be sang in legends for years to come"
		"Do not try to distract me with hails"
		"Do you want to surrender already? Ha"
	word
		"!"

phrase "hostile unfettered challenger"
	word
		"Do you wish to end the fight?"
		"I can see you are having difficulties. Feel free to call this off for another time..."
		"Remember, you only need to give me a symbolic bribe for this to stop."
		"This is not a duel to the death, or else only one of us would be able learn."
		"Do you wish to surrender?"

> 		"I am reasonable, if you wish to surrender, we can come to terms."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"I am reasonable. If you wish to surrender, we can come to terms."
```

> 		"You are lucky that I have to accept any ceasefire if you ask... You would do well not to attempt anything."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"You are lucky that I have to accept any ceasefire if you ask... you would do well not to attempt anything."
```

phrase "hostile unfettered challenger"
	word
		"Here's a "
	word
		"free"
		"useful"
		"common"
	word
		" tip: "
		" hint: "
	word
		"when feeling overwhelmed in duels you can always ${overwhelmed in duel}! Try it next time."
		"the challengers have common weaknesses, and you should try to get an edge by ${advantage in duel}."
		

phrase "overwhelmed in duel"
	word
		"tactically retreat to the edge of the system"
		"bribe the challengers"
		"try to split the enemies apart"

> 		"change system"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"change systems"
```

	word
		"!"

phrase "defeated unfettered challenger"
	word
		"You have "
		"You succeeded in "
		"You managed to have "
		"Somehow, you have "
		"I must admit you have "
	word
		"beaten "
		"defeated "
		"ashamed "
		"disabled "
		"revealed my weakness% "
	word
		"me in a% "
	word
		"glorious "
		"pathetic "
		"exceptional "
		"grandiose "
		"fast-paced "
		"strategic "
	word
		"battle"
		"combat"
		"duel"
		"fight"
		"challenge"
	word
		"."
		"!"
	word
		" What more do you want from me?" 3
		" Do not presume you may board me." 3
		" Do not even think about capturing my ship." 3
		" Now it is over, time to lay down your weapons." 3
		" I accept my fate, take what is rightfully yours." 3
		" Great stories will be told!" 3
		" You have the right to plunder." 3
		" It would seem you are as strong as some pretended, perhaps even more." 3
		" Finish me! I would rather die than have to live with this insult."
	replace
		"% me" ""
		"a% e" "an e"
		"a%" "a"

phrase "unfettered dueling"
	word
		"Do not presume to interrupt us"
		"This is an official challenge, do not intervene"
		"Under no circumstances are you to interrupt us, or you will suffer the wrath of the Unfettered"

> 		"Make sure you don't distracting me"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"Make sure you don't distract me"
```
Or
```suggestion
		"Make sure you aren’t distracting me"
```

phrase "beaten in duel"
	word

> 		`The duellist seems`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		`The duellist seems `
```

	word
		`very excited`
		`all too happy`

> 		`a bit disapointed`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		`a bit disappointed`
```

	job
	repeat
	name "Ready for more spontaneous challengers"

> 	description "Mark yourself as ready for more spontaneous challengers to come in all Unfettered systems. There currently "

Reviewer: Did you mean to write something here?

Author: shhht spoilers

	word
		`! `
	word
		`You owe me `
		`I deserve `

> 		`You should give me`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		`You should give me `
```

	word
		` `
	word

> 		`For now, here are the agreed <payment>. Hopefully it will allows you to improve your flagship before our next battle..`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		`For now, here are the agreed <payment>. Hopefully it will allow you to improve your flagship before our next battle..`
```

	word
		`."`
	word
		"	(Winning the duel has slightly increased your reputation with the Unfettered. You are in no way allowed to do any more than plundering the ship.)"

phrase "unfettered challenger captured"
	word
		`As soon as you captured the enemy challenger, you are hailed by the local unfettered authorities with a purple code priority transmission: "Never do that again. This is your first and final warning."`

mission "Duel Rewards"
	landing
	source
		attributes "unfettered"
	to offer
		has "unfettered challenger defeated"
	on offer
		conversation
			`You open the hatch of your ship, only to discover a hai standing right in front of you, pointing pistols you have never seen before! This must be the captain you have just defeated.`
			choice
				`	(Wait for them to reveal their intentions.)`
					goto explain
				`	(Draw my weapon.)`
			`	As you start to reach for your weapon the Unfettered gets closer to you, moving fast to put one of their pistols on your neck. "I like you," she says. "Ready to face danger, welcoming death! A shame you probably will not live that long with this attitude," she says before moving back slightly.`
			label explain

> 			`	She salutes you, pistol still in their hand, before presenting both weapons to you, as if making an offering. Seeing your apparent surprise, she starts speaking about the pistols, "Fascinating design, is it not? They come from the time of the raid. Even then, some of us decided it was better to take the initiative and attack them before they can, us! They developped this much more mobile version of the pulse rifle, and made it more deadly.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			`	She salutes you, pistol still in her hand, before presenting both weapons to you, as if making an offering. Seeing your apparent surprise, she starts speaking about the pistols, "Fascinating design, is it not? They come from the time of the Korath raids. Even then, some of us decided it was better to take the initiative and attack them before they can attack us! They developed this much more mobile version of the pulse rifle, and made it more deadly.`
```

> 			`	You earned the right to have mine by defeating me in a duel. Of course we won't bother you every time you win one, but you'll be getting the pistols all the same, 3 by 3." She almost forcibly puts the pistols in your hand, and goes back to her ship, probably to supervise the repairs.`

Reviewer: > 3 by 3

What does this mean?

Author: 3 each time you land
~~that'd be clearer~~

			`	He looks around, maybe searching for a competitor that could hear about this. "I want them. Name your price, whatever it may be, and I shall meet it! Such a weapon combination would do wonders in the raids, and would allow me to not hurt my brethren. Truly, this is for a good cause!"`
			choice
				`	"I want a Lightning Bug in exchange."`
				`	"3 million credits should do."`
					goto money
				`	"I want you to escort me in your Sea Scorpion, for 2 months."`
					goto escort

> 				`	"I'd like to exchange them 2 ionic turrets.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				`	"I'd like to exchange them for 2 ionic turrets.`
```
I think this is what you mean?

		"I am reasonable, if you wish to surrender, we can come to terms."
		"You are lucky that I have to accept any ceasefire if you ask... You would do well not to attempt anything."

phrase "hostile unfettered challenger"
	word
		"Here's a "
	word
		"free"
		"useful"
		"common"
	word
		" tip: "
		" hint: "
	word
		"when feeling overwhelmed in duels you can always ${overwhelmed in duel}! Try it next time."
		"the challengers have common weaknesses, and you should try to get an edge by ${advantage in duel}."
		

phrase "overwhelmed in duel"
	word
		"tactically retreat to the edge of the system"
		"bribe the challengers"
		"try to split the enemies apart"
		"change system"
		"upgrade your ship design"
		"scan the enemy to find out their vulnerabilities"

phrase "advantage in duel"
	word
		"figuring out if their engines are weak"
		"trying to slide away whilst shooting them back"

> 		"using your range advantage, beit in missiles, ion cannons or else"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		"using your range advantage, be it in missiles, ion cannons or else"
```

		"try to get your hands on powerful prototypes"

> 		"go and acquire alien technology, even human ones has its use"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		"go and acquire alien technology, even human ones have their uses"
```

		"overheat their ship"
		"shoot them down with missiles if they lack sufficient jammers and anti-missiles"
		"try to get at their batteries with ion weapons"

phrase "hostile unfettered challenger"
	word
		"If you happen to know of "
		"If you heard of "
		"When you come to know about "
		"Next time you get your hands on "
		"If you 'find' "
	word
		"a strong"
		"an interesting"
		"a 'good'"
		"an exotic"
		"a respectable"
		"a powerful"
		"an overpowered"
	word
		" weapon combo"
		" alien weapon"
		" human junk-weapon"
	word

> 		", you should come and"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		", you should come and "
```
